[MUSIC]
Hello and welcome to the coursera
course on approximation algorithms.
This is a two part course.
And I would like to tell you about
the first part of this course.
These algorithms are for dealing with
problems from combinatorial optimization.
Combinatorial optimization problems
come up all the time in daily life.
For example, scheduling classes.
You want to schedule classes to avoid
overlap when students are sign up for
several different classes to make
sure that there are always classrooms
available for your classes and
to take into account various constraints
having to do with your school.
Or perhaps you own a truck company and
you need to plan delivery routes for
your trucks.
What kind of delivery routes?
You need to deliver your goods to all
the customers who ask for them, and
perhaps you wish to minimize the amount
of fuel spent by your trucks.
There are many other instances of
combinatorial optimization problems.
Unfortunately most of them are NP-hard,
meaning ST is different from NP.
There is no hope for finding
an efficient solution in all cases.
Polynomial time solution for
all instances in the worst case.
So, what to do?
Dealing with NP-hard problems can
be done in several different ways.
Number one, give up.
This problem is impossible.
You cannot hope to find a good
solution in reasonable time.
All right, this is not an option when you
have to deal with real life problems.
Option number two, roll up our sleeves.
Okay, let's try to look at all
possibilities and take the best one.
Yes, it will take a long time but let's
just be brave and roll up our sleeves.
Well unfortunately this is
about the same as giving up.
Because on many instances as soon
as they become a little bit large
this will take you forever, and you
won't be able to give the best solution.
All right.
Third option.
Perhaps you're just going to try
something and hope to be lucky.
For example, delivery routes.
You'll say okay, let me try to
send one truck here, there, there,
and there and another truck to
another sequence of customers and
maybe, maybe your solution will be good.
This, for a theoretician, like myself,
is not acceptable because you have
no control over your solution.
This design of heuristics is not
the kind of things we are striving for.
Fourth solution, let's try to do a rough,
but good enough, job.
What does it mean?
First, we limit ourselves
to work in polynomial time.
Second, We give up on
finding the optimal solution.
Instead, we try to find
a good enough solution.
What does good enough mean?
It means there's a certain objective we
have in mind, and our goal is to find
the solution whose value is not too
much worse than the optimal solution.
Provably within a small factor
of the optimal solution.
So how do we go about designing
approximation algorithms?
First we recognize that real
life problems are too complex.
This is out of our reach for
most real life problems.
Instead, what we will do in order
to be able to prove things,
is study idealized versions
of the problems that come up.
Idealized version of the knapsack problem,
for example,.
And then,
on these simple idealized problems,
with few parameters defining the input.
We can hopefully prove theorems.
These theorems give us new algorithmic and
structural insights on
the difficulty of the problems.
And so,
we start from real-life situations.
We distill the difficulties to
define basic theoretical primes.
On those problems, we do theory we
design a solution, an algorithm.
We prove some theorems about it.
On the route to doing that,
we get some new ideas.
Then we have to go back to real life and
apply that theory to
the real life situation.
In this course, I will focus on
the theory for basic problems.
I will not talk about going back and
forth between real life and
to theory and back to real life.
I will be focused solely on the theory
of approximation algorithms for
basic problems.
So what problems are we going to study?
The choice of problems is
guided by two concerns.
One, I want famous problems.
Well-studied problems that
you would like to know about.
It's good for your culture to
have heard about these problems.
Two, I would like problems each
of which gives you an opportunity
to learn about techniques for
the design of approximation algorithms.
In this part of the course,
the first part of the course,
there are five chapters
corresponding to five problems,
five different techniques in the design or
in the analysis.
First, vertex cover.
Second, knapsack.
Third, bin packing.
Fourth, set cover.
Five the most difficult problem
in this part of the course,
the multiway cut problem.
So I will start shortly with
the first problem in our list,
the vertex cover problem.
And it will be a chance to introduce
one important technique in a design of
approximation algorithms, having a linear
programming relaxation for the problem.
But before I start with
the technical part,
let me introduce all the staff
that is helping with this course.
Vincent Cohen-Addad,
Frederik Mallmann-Trenn, and
Victor Verdugo,
the three teaching assistants.
Unfortunately, Victor Is here, Vincent
is here, but Frederik is not here today.
He's out sick, but Vincent and
Victor can both introduce themselves.
Vincent would you like to say
a few words about yourself?
>> Sure.
Thanks.
Hi, I'm Vincent Cohen-Addad.
I'm a PhD student here at TNS
working on approximation algorithm.
I'm very happy to be a teaching
assistant for this course airamook.
>> Thank you, Vincent.
Victor?
Would you like to say a few
words about yourself?
>> Hola, I'm Victor Verdugo.
I'm from Chile, and I'm currently
working in Paris for my PhD thesis.
I'm very glad to be part of this
course airamook as teaching assistant.
Thank you Victor.
Let me also mention,
our film director, Naudie and
our cameraman, Joe who,
unfortunately, are both camera shy.
Once again, welcome to the Coursera course
on Approximation Algorithms, Part One.